# Introduction to AWS for Non-Engineers: 1 Cloud Concepts

## **Diving into AWS**

---

### 4.1 Popular Services Offered in AWS

Transcript:
Compute services provide virtual server hosting, container management, and serverless computing. You can set code to run to certain triggers using Lambda, run virtual machines using Elastic Compute Cloud or EC2, quickly set up and run small websites using LightSail, or create a unit of software to ship out to your users using Elastic Container Services or ECS. Compute services are backbones of cloud computing platforms as they provide the much-coveted computing resources that many companies are looking for. Instead of having to host their own servers in their own data centers, they can rent servers from AWS for pennies on the dollar. Storage services provide storage for both in-use and archival files. You can use Elastic File System or EFS to create shared folders in the cloud. You can upload flat files like images, videos, or text files to Simple Storage Service or S3 and link to it directly to use on your website. You can also archive files and store large amounts of data for cheap using Glacier or you can use Storage Gateway to take daily backups of your company's on-premises data and send them to the cloud for safekeeping. Storage solutions are cheaper than ever with cloud computing and AWS provides many options depending on the frequency of access and durability of data you require. AWS also offers fully-managed relational and NoSQL databases. Their cost-efficient relational database is called Relational Database Service or RDS and a highly scalable NoSQL database is called DynamoDB. They also offer a fully managed, easily scalable petabyte-scale data warehouse service called Redshift and a highly scalable caching service called ElastiCache. ElastiCache allows you to run extremely intensive computations by caching necessary data in the cloud. All of the database services are highly scalable and cost efficient so you can crunch all the numbers and data you need for a fraction of the cost of an on-site database server. It's easy to get lost in the abundance of options but it's also exciting to consider the almost limitless potentials in what we can create using these resources.

---

### 4.2 Create an AWS Account

Transcript:
Let's dig right in and create an AWS account. You'll need to go to aws.amazon.com. Just as a warning, creating an account requires to have a valid phone number and a credit card. To create the account, click on the very aptly labeled button here that says "Create an AWS Account." Fill in your email address and create a password. An AWS account name is a unique username for AWS. You might have to try a few times before you hit an account no one has taken yet. Once you're done filling out the form, click Continue. For the account type, choose Personal, as you are creating this account to learn and explore. Enter your full name, phone number, as well as your address. Make sure to read the agreement and check the box before proceeding. Once you're done, click Create Account and Continue. We're almost done. The next page asks for your payment information. For the first 12 months after your account creation, you are eligible for what is called the AWS Free Tier. This means that up a certain usage level, you can try out many of AWS's most popular features for free. The payment information is in case you use features that require payment, or if you go past your free tier limits. They will make a small test charge to make sure your payment method is valid. It will go away once your account confirmation is complete. Now click Secure Submit. We're almost done. This page will ask you to verify your account creation with a phone verification. They will call you so you can put in a code to verify that you indeed did create this new account. This number can be any phone number that you can receive calls at, so it can be an extension at work if needs be. Put in your phone number, type in the code in the security check, and click on Contact me. When prompted, enter the four numbers that came up after clicking the button when you received the call. Feel free to pause this video now to receive the phone call. Once you complete the verification, click Continue. Now you'll select a support plan for your account. As you can see on this page, there are three kinds of support plans available to you, which are Basic Plan, Developer Plan, and Business Plan. There is also a fourth one, Enterprise, but that's only for bigger companies that require a lot of support. Each plan has different features, support tiers, and costs associated. You can click on the Basic Plan, as it's free and provides you access to health status and notifications for your various services. You can learn more about each support plan by clicking on Learn More. Now we wait for AWS to finish creating your account. The page you're on now helps you personalize your account by picking your role and interests while you wait for the account to be activated. Once your account is fully ready, which generally only takes a few minutes at most, they will notify you by email. There you have it. You've successfully created an AWS account. Go check your email to log in to your own AWS management console for the first time.

---

### 4.3 Exploring the AWS Dashboard

Transcript:
When you first log in to the AWS Management Console, you'll immediately notice that there's a lot going on. No worries. Most of the time, we only work with one or two of the resources on this dashboard. First off, let's take look at the right top corner of the browser. Here, you'll see your user name you chose for yourself when you signed up for an account. When you click on your user name, you can find out information and have a quick way of accessing your security credentials. The billing portion is important as you start exploring different services, as some of them will cost money, even during the free tier. Let's move on to the link near the user name labeled Support. Here, you can explore different ways of finding documentation and support resources for your issues or questions. You can create tickets in the support center or ask peers in the forum. You can also find documentation and tutorials on how to troubleshoot or create certain functions in the documentations and trainings offered by AWS for free. The Services link at the top left corner of the browser takes you to the list of all the services AWS offers. This list expands as new services are announced, and just in October of 2018, AWS added new categories, like Blockchain and Satellite. Some of the most popular categories of services are Storage, Commute, and Database. You can click on any of them and they will provide you information and introduction to the services, as well as resources you could check out to learn more about them. Back on the main dashboard, there are resources to learn about various services and what they can do for you, such as the Build a solution and Learn to build section. You can also go to the Explore AWS column to the right and see what AWS things you should check out now. There are many parts to the AWS Management Console dashboard, but we've gone over many of the main resources available for you to begin your dive in to AWS. A big portion of learning a new system or technology is knowing where to look for answers. And the support resources available on the dashboard can answer many of your potential questions and issues. Go ahead and take a little while to explore the dashboard on your own.